[Music]
so what do they have
no electricity on board all equipment
down
no airport in sight and only a half
forgotten runway
deep in the siberian snow forest it's
hard to imagine a worse scenario for a
passenger plane landing
so it's a real miracle that everyone
ended up safe and sound
and all of it thanks to a glass of water
flight 516 was scheduled for september
7th
2010 as a regular flight from oduchni
russia
to moscow the plane had been used for 20
years
but it had never suffered a single
accident before
so the cabin crew had no doubts the
flight would be easy
passengers got on board the plane flight
attendants nonchalantly checked their
boarding passes
everything went as usual the first pilot
greeted everyone
and the flight began
the crew noticed the first signs of
trouble when the plane was over a small
town
of uzinsk in siberia the electronic
equipment started acting abnormally but
the pilots shrugged it off as a nuisance
and continued the flight air traffic
control
also neglected the problem the aircraft
captain
yep jenny solof made an announcement for
the passengers to remain
calm the plane was going through a
slight turbulence
and the flight could get a little rough
for a short time
and it worked there was no commotion on
board
the people trusted their pilot however
just eight minutes after the
announcement the lights in the cabin
went
off only the flight attendants paid any
attention to it
believing everything was all right in
the cockpit though
the situation immediately became
desperate
it wasn't just the lights that shut down
all the electronics on board suddenly
went out
basically leaving the pilots to their
own devices
without the equipment the plane became
crippled
it was still operable but all the
navigational systems refused to work
the radio went offline and the fuel
transfer pumps were also lost
this resulted in pilots having to
navigate using only their visuals
and the fuel that remained usable could
only keep the plane in the air for about
30 minutes
the situation was critical the time was
not enough for the flight to get to the
nearest airport
even in otherwise perfect condition but
with all the electronics gone
finding a good spot to land and land
there safely for that matter
was next to impossible the pilots had to
use
all their experience and expertise to
keep the plane steady
when the electrical failure occurred the
plane was high above the clouds at
thirty four thousand
seven hundred eighty feet the crew had
to get below the curtain to see the
ground in case they needed to make an
emergency landing
but also to turn on the auxiliary
generator that couldn't function at high
altitudes
without any means to control the angle
at which they descended
they used an old and almost forgotten
trick a glass of water put on the
control panel
taking turns the pilots watched the
water in the glass
and measured the angle of descent by its
incline
this perfectly simple but genius
solution made it possible to get as far
down as
nine thousand eight hundred forty feet
at which level the pilots were finally
able to try and switch on the generator
as miss fortune would have it the
attempt failed
no electricity still
the crew didn't lose hope though and as
they could see the ground now
they scanned it for a place to land as
captain nova solaf
later said in an interview it was a pure
stroke of
luck that they saw a landing strip near
the town of
isma it was an old airport that had been
abandoned for a long time
and closed for any aircraft except
helicopters
no radio no air traffic control nothing
was left there
except one man airport supervisor
sergey sotnikov all in all
what happened in the next few minutes
can only be described as a miracle
you see despite the abandonment of the
airport
sotnikov of his own will kept the runway
in a good condition for all those years
he cut down the emerging brush swept
away garbage
and even drew the runway marking when it
failed
that's why the pilots of the unfortunate
plane were able to notice it in the
first place
and you could only imagine their
surprise at this finding
because this airport was not even on the
maps anymore
however the length of the runway in isma
was only 4347 feet
well this airplane needs 6560 feet to
land safely
moreover the speed which the aircraft
was going down
was much greater than safety
instructions allowed
236 miles per hour against the safe 168.
that was because the flaps could only be
controlled via electrical switches
all odds were against the cabin crew of
the plane
but now they at least had a chance they
didn't need to land in the forest any
longer
risking the lives of everyone on board
so they used the sudden opportunity to
their advantage
it took the airplane three attempts at
landing before it finally hit the runway
the first two ended in the pilots
returning the aircraft for another
circuit
they assessed all the risks and were
very careful in their actions
as it was later noted in the official
investigation this
carefulness might have saved dozens of
lives
before the last attempt at landing all
passengers and the cabin crew were
transferred to the front of the plane
to be ready for an emergency evacuation
and there was still
no panic as the crew recalls everyone
was
calm and serious absolutely
understanding that something big was
going on
and their lives were at stake people
were waiting patiently in their seats
and didn't make a sound
finally the pilots committed and brought
the plane down on the runway
the landing gear almost went ablaze from
the friction
but still it didn't help the plane to
stop before the runway ended
the aircraft ran through all of it and
rammed into the forest
going another 520 feet before stopping
completely
the trees damaged the plane but also
slowed down its advance
which was part of the miracle the
machine came to a screeching bumping
halt
the emergency escape slides were
dispatched and all
72 passengers along with all nine crew
members
safely went down to the ground none of
them
were even slightly injured
so against all odds with none of the
planes electrical systems working
with no proper runway to land on with a
speed that should have crashed the
aircraft into the forest
and without even the means to tell
anyone they were having an emergency
the heroic pilot still landed the plane
and saved everyone's lives
the lucky passengers and crew were
transported by helicopters to nearby
utka
from where they went on to moscow by
another plane
and only one family decided they'd had
enough air travel for a lifetime
and took a train instead but whatever
the passengers chose
all of them signed a collective letter
to the government to grant decorations
to the cabin crew
they all agreed that the professionalism
they showed on board
prevented the tragedy on october 8th
2010 a month after the event sergey
nogoslayoff
and his co-pilot andre laminov were made
heroes of the russian federation while
the rest of the cabin crew received the
orders of courage
not forgotten was another hero without
whose diligence and dedication
the safe landing of flight 516 would
have been impossible
sergey sotnikov the supervisor of the
isma
airport received his decorations in
february 2012.
but what happened to the airplane after
it delivered its passengers and crew to
safety
at first the government wanted to put it
out of use and dismantle it
the arguments were that even if the
aircraft were repaired after all the
damage it received
it would be unable to take off from the
runway in isma
it was still too short for such a big
and heavy airplane
however it was later decided that the
plane could be rescued after all
and indeed in march 2011 after all the
immediately necessary repairs were
finished
the airline owning the plane managed to
fly it to another station
where it could be repaired completely
after that
the aircraft continue performing flights
for another seven years
it received its own nickname isma and in
september 2018
it flew for the last time part of its
old crew from 2010 was on board
while the former captain met his old
friend on the ground
that was how after almost 30 years of
service
the heroic airplane said its goodbyes
wow do you know of any other amazing
stories of miracles in the air
sound off in the comments below if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend
but hey don't go anywhere just yet we
have over two thousand cool videos for
you to check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video click on it
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life